[slow instrumental music playing]
[Phil] Top of the morning to you!
Do I sound Irish?
♪ A happy, hungry man ♪
♪ Is traveling all across the sea
And the land ♪
♪ He's trying to understand ♪
♪ The art of pasta, pork
Chicken, and lamb ♪
♪ He will drive to you
He will fly to you ♪
♪ He will sing for you
And dance for you ♪
♪ He will laugh with you
And he'll cry for you ♪
♪ There's just one thing
He asks in return ♪
♪ Somebody feed, somebody feed ♪
♪ Can somebody, somebody feed Phil ♪
♪ Somebody feed him now ♪
Ireland's kind of a part of my life.
I married an Irish girl.
So, coming to Dublin
seems like a natural thing to do.
And when you get here, you see right away
that the whole place is filled
with people like her.
Sweet and positive, very warm.
The Irish are famous
for their charm and humor,
but their food never won
many popularity contests.
They were always better known
for their... you know.
But that's changing.
Now the food
is catching up with the drink.
And local chefs are turning the tales of
terrible Irish food into ancient history.
A perfect example of that new direction
of Irish food is right here,
one of Dublin's hot new breakfasts spots,
Brother Hubbard,
run by chef Garrett Fitzgerald.
-Hey! Mr. Garrett. Nice to see you.
-Welcome! How are you?
Come on in.
-I love breakfast.
-Good morning. Very good.
And I love the Irish breakfast.
Okay.
I've a bit of a surprise for you, Phil.
-We don't do Irish breakfasts.
-Goodbye, Garrett.
Garrett Fitzgerald and his life partner,
James Boland, created this place,
and the food is all based
on their travels around the world.
I had a whole different career working
in the energy industry of all things,
and I loved it, but I found myself
spending all of my spare time
either cooking or making travel plans
based around food and things like that.
And I realized that was my true passion,
so I spent about two years traveling.
I realized that Middle Eastern food
really excited me
because it was such a wonderful,
vibrant, fresh, healthy cuisine.
So, this is your eggs menemen.
-My eggs what?
-[waitress] Eggs menemen.
-Turkish eggs menemen.
-[Garrett] Yes!
[waitress] A new word.
[Garrett]
It's a very traditional Turkish dish,
and it was inspired
from my time in Istanbul.
It's really good whatever--
whatever its name is.
I love how travel inspired you.
And it's what I try to tell everybody.
The most mind-expanding thing we can do.
It literally changed
your life, your career.
-And I'm having Turkish-Irish breakfast...
-Yeah! [chuckles]
...which is fantastic.
We want you to feel better
getting up from the table.
You know, you're leaving
with a spring in your step.
-First time in Ireland?
-I was here ten years ago.
-Oh, wow. Okay.
-I fell in love with it.
[Garrett] Mm.
-And you know I married an Irish girl.
-No way!
Uh-huh. She's not originally
from Ireland, but her ancestry.
Whereabouts in Ireland, do you know?
What would be the worst part?
[laughs]
I love a good wife joke.
[Phil] But what I never joke about
is dessert.
Garrett and his team
bake all this stuff every morning.
It would be rude not to eat everything.
-[Phil] Hi.
-[Garrett] Good Lord.
-You were saying about healthy breakfast.
-I know, yeah. So... [laughs]
[Garrett] We call it cinnamon scroll
'cause it's like
the Dead Sea Scrolls rolled up like that.
Then we have
a chocolate and hazelnut babka.
-[Phil] What!?
-[Garrett] Yeah!
Lots of folding going on there. [chuckles]
Wow, going right in there.
I have one thing to say.
[Garrett laughs]
It was an agonizing pause there.
Mm.
Wow, you're really packing it away.
I'm very impressed.
Somebody has to.
[chuckles]
[Phil] ♪ In Dublin's fair city ♪
♪ Where the girls are so pretty ♪
♪ I first laid my eyes
On sweet Molly Malone ♪
♪ She wheels her wheelbarrow ♪
♪ Through streets broad and narrow ♪
♪ Singing cockles and mussels
Alive, alive-o ♪
[Phil] Dublin is the capital
of the Republic of Ireland,
a little country with a huge influence.
Famous for literature, poetry, music
and all around good times.
Around 80 million people worldwide
can claim some Irish ancestry
including this nice lady here,
my wife Monica.
When she heard
that we were doing the Dublin show,
she said, "I might have to come."
We thought we'd go to the new
amazing museum here in Dublin called EPIC,
where you can actually
trace your genealogy.
[Phil] Here we go, Monica.
[Monica] Here we go, Philip.
[Phil] It's completely interactive
and completely dazzling.
[Phil] Science.
[Phil] They cover everything here:
Irish literature,
Irish music unfortunately.
♪ ...of the green ♪
♪ For the wearing of the green
For the wearing of the green ♪
♪ They're hanging men and women ♪
♪ For the wearing of the green ♪
It's about hanging men and women
for the wearing of the green.
That's just sad and happy.
That's the Irish.
-That was a great segment.
-Wasn't it? [giggles]
[Phil] But now she's on a roll.
[Irish folk music playing]
[Monica] Oops!
Is that good? [chuckles]
[Monica] Come on, Phil! Come on!
You've got to switch your legs like that.
Hold my hand!
I'm not doing this!
[Monica]  Kind of right, right?
Ooh, switch, switch!
[Monica laughs]
Ooh, Phil! Ooh!
You wish.
Then you get your own person
who can tell you your lineage.
So, we thought we'd give Monica the test.
Okay, so you gave me
a little bit of information.
We're looking for your dad's family.
-So, Robert Horan.
-This is like Antique's Roadshow...
-Roadshow!
-...but with people.
[laughing]
I hope she's worth something.
Your grandparents were James Horan
-and Margaret McGovern.
-Yes.
The reason we know that...
is this little document here.
So, we have the marriage of James Horan,
and Margaret McGovern.
And he's a machinist.
[Phil] So not a Duke.
[Monica laughs]
-[woman] Sorry.
-Not a knight.
Does it say "James A."? What is that?
It does. James A.
-I never knew his middle name so...
-Yeah. James A.
-Be funny if she goes, "Nope, not him!
-[laughs]
Nope, his middle name was Harvey. Sorry!"
Nobody knew his middle name.
Like, we've never heard it.
So your great grandparents
are both born in Philadelphia
on that side, on the Horan side.
But she is Irish?
-She is Irish.
-[Monica laughs]
Because when I wrote
to the mail order company,
-I asked for an Irish girl.
-[woman laughs]
It's the mother's side, born in Ireland.
-I think I'm 51 percent Irish.
-Oh.
-[Phil] That's it?
-That's it.
You seem more than that.
I'm 25 percent Jewish.
You seem more than that, too.
[chuckles]
[in Irish accent] When you're complaining.
I complain, and I drink.
-[laughs] I got the worst of both worlds!
-Perfect combination!
[Phil] Even though Ireland is,
of course, so much more than potatoes,
I'd be an idiot to come here
and not have any!
So there's
an Irish potato pancake called a boxty.
That's kind of a cross
between hash browns and a latke.
It's very traditional.
And there's a guy,
a great chef named Padraic Gallagher.
Padraic is how you say Patrick
in the Irish language.
And like the saint,
this Patrick works miracles too.
In a world of potatoes,
Padraic is the expert
and he has the famous Boxty House.
I brought my newly certified Irish wife
here to try this specialty.
Boxty!
-Hello, guys.
-You're chef Padraic, aren't you?
-Hi. Monica. How are you doing?
-So nice to meet you. Monica.
-Hi, Phil. How are you?
-Hi. I'm Phil.
[Monica] We are lucky!
I believe I should say
welcome home to you.
-Yes. Thank you.
-[Phil] That's right.
An Irish lass.
Galway and Cavan.
Cavan! Well, I'm Leitrim.
-Oh, where's that?
-Right beside Cavan.
It's actually where boxty's from,
so you're really home.
Boxty is something you grew up with.
On Friday, in a good Catholic country,
you had a choice, either fish or boxty.
The fish wasn't great in Leitrim,
but the boxty was terrific.
-I have some beer for you.
-[Phil] Oh, look at that.
-[Padraic] Fantastic. Here you go!
-I'm happy.
[Padraic] This is our own beer.
-We brew this. I brew this.
-[Phil] I'm excited.
-[Padraic] It's called Jack Smyth...
-[Phil] Yeah?
...after the boy that just served you,
my son, Jack Smyth Gallagher.
-That's your boy?
-That's my boy.
-I got to say hi.
-[Monica] We have to compliment...
[Phil] I get my chance because
he's right back out with some food.
-[Phil] You're the boy!
-Namesake.
[Phil] Jack Smyth!
How are you?
-Phil. Nice to meet you. That's Monica.
-I'm Monica.
-Nice to meet you, Monica.
-Nice to meet you.
So these are the three types of boxty.
There's boiled, baked, and pan boxty.
Okay. Pan is a pancake,
the boiled are dumplings,
and then we have the boxty loaf.
The boxty loaf's really good.
This is potato?
Yeah. Grated raw potato,
cooked mashed potato and some flour.
Now you think this is...
How exciting is this going to be?
Until you taste a real potato in Ireland
made by someone
who knows how to make them.
Really good.
Oh, my gosh, so delicious.
We have great produce in this country.
Fantastic produce in this country,
and only in the past 20 years,
we've really actually come forward
and started producing
and delivering it and shouting about it.
Why is that?
A lot of the kids studied
culinary arts. They've come back.
They brought what they've learned back
to the country,
and they're opening small restaurants.
The food scene in Dublin is vibrant.
-[Phil] I know!
-It's fantastic.
It's almost like people all over the world
are waking up to what is around them.
I know. The boxty,
it's a 17th, 18th century product
that I've brought into the 21st century.
-Uh-oh. Here comes trouble.
-[Monica] This is gonna be good.
[Jack] Corned beef boxty.
Thank you very much, Mollieann!
-[Monica] Thank you.
-My daughter.
[Phil] Oh, nice to meet you!
The whole family.
[Padraic] Yep. Yes.
-She's got your dimples.
-[chuckles]
-That's a boxty.
-[Padraic] Corned beef and cabbage boxty.
They always tell us that corned beef
and cabbage is American created.
It is American. When the Irish left here,
they mixed
with their Jewish friends in New York,
and they started
developing the corned beef.
Corned beef is
a Jewish-Irish collaboration.
-[Padraic] Yes.
-[Phil] Hey, like us.
I've got a stew sampler.
[Padraic] Exactly.
[Monica] It feels like March 17th,
I have to say.
[Padraic] Listen. This is the Boxty House.
Every day is March 17th.
On that one, sláinte!
[Phil] To your health!
[Monica] Sláinte!
[Phil] Dublin's got some beautiful parks,
like this one, Merrion Square.
With its big lawns
and the famous two-sided statue
of poet and playwright Oscar Wilde.
On this side, he's smiling
to represent his great comedies,
but he's frowning over here.
It's a little nod to
his horrible persecution and tragic end.
The number one attraction,
not just in Dublin, but in all of Ireland
is the Guinness Storehouse.
Guinness has been in operation since 1759.
The brewery sits at the center of town
and as you get close to it,
you start to smell it.
So, this nice fella, Nick, leads me up
through the storehouse to the tap room,
which overlooks all of Dublin.
You have this 360 degree view
of Dublin and beyond.
[man] So, a nice angle on the glass.
And we're going
to slowly straighten it up like so,
and when we're up here at the top,
we're gonna stop.
You get to take that in with your eyes.
This is where you get to wait.
It's gonna be about a minute.
How's that looking?
[chuckles]
[Phil] Pouring it three quarters,
letting it settle,
watch that beautiful thing.
Waiting that minute. The anticipation.
Let's not underestimate anticipation.
This time we push the handle backwards.
This is the tricky part.
[man] This part
you don't wanna spill.
-You're gonna bring it up to the top.
-[Phil gasps]
Just above the lip of the glass like that.
Give it a moment. Let it settle out.
The head forms nicely on top,
and then it's time for you to drink.
-Do the thing with the lip--
-Actually, stand up straight.
And this way you want
to bring the pint to you, all right?
Get under the head of the beer
into the body of that beer.
There you go.
Yeah, that's delicious.
[man] Come on around.
We'll get you to have a go.
-Look out.
-We're going to put you on this tap, Phil.
Why? Is this the one you don't care
-if a monkey runs it? Okay!
-We've been working on it.
Straighten your glass.
Keep going a little more,
straighten the glass and stop.
[man] Perfect. Let it rest.
-So again, present it to the customers.
-Take a break, people.
You know I did a bit of bartending
for about a month.
I was terrible.
First drink somebody asked me for
was a Pink Squirrel.
-You know what that is?
-No.
-I didn't either!
-[chuckles]
I looked at my--
There was a book, Mr. Boston.
-Yeah.
-Told you how to--
-A cocktail?
-Cocktail. So I went under the--
I looked under "P." I couldn't find it.
I looked under "S" for squirrel,
I couldn't find it.
I looked under "R" for rodent drinks,
Did you find it in the end?
No. I went back to the lady,
and I said, "Can you help me?
-It's my first day."
-Yeah. [chuckles]
"Can you get something simple?"
Yeah, she got a gin and tonic.
I'll always remember that.
An act of kindness.
-[man] Ready?
-[Phil] Yes.
Bring it back in. We're gonna top it off.
Hold it straight. Push the handle away.
Right up to the top,
and just let go of the handle
when you reach the top of that glass.
Smidgen more. Just a tiny bit.
There you go. Stop. Beautiful.
-Not terrible for first time.
-You've done that before, right?
-Not that.
-Really? Drop it down there.
-[Phil] I don't want-- Oh, look.
-[man] Uh-oh.
-[Phil] That could have been a shaky hand.
-[man] Yeah.
The pour was perfect.
It was just the placement.
Perhaps a little off.
But you know, we can try again.
-Okay.
-We do have do-overs. Why not?
Perfect. [chuckles]
How fun is this? Oh, wait I need a break.
This one's ready to top off.
-[man] Oh! Other way, Phil.
-Oh, damn it.
-[man] Very nice. Perfect. Good one.
-Look at that, come on!
-Excellent.
-It only took me four tries.
I had all these extras.
So, what am I going to do with them?
[Phil] You never want
your crew to be too sober.
-[woman] Nick.
-[Phil] Where's your pint?
Oh! I forgot myself.
There we go, give me that.
Thanks very much!
-[all] Cheers!
-[man] Sláinte
[Phil] You gotta try
this meal in a glass when you're here,
and if you're looking
to make a night of it...
I've always been a Scotch guy,
but now in Ireland, who knew?
I didn't know.
You knew.
There's Irish whiskey.
This is called Red Bird.
This is called Red Breast.
Who cares what it's called? [chuckles]
Ah. Beautiful.
Wow, it's like honey, right?
Hang on, people.
This one's near to my heart.
When the guy at the shop showed me
this one, I said "I make my own."
Yeah, that one's got a little burn after--
An after-burn...
that one, but... damn.
Here's another one.
It's called Power's.
This is very popular here.
-Listen.
-[cork pops]
Ah. [chuckles]
[chuckles]
It's the Irish mating call.
That's how I got my wife.
Made that sound
and then she came running. "What? What?"
Irish whiskey, people.
I'm here to say, "Do it!"
[Phil] Booze is always nice,
but here's my real weakness.
This is actually my kind of pub.
Yeah, an ice cream pub.
-Yeah.
-There's very few fights.
Kevin McGahern's an Irish comedian.
He's an actor and a satirical comedy host,
kind of like the Jon Stewart of Ireland.
-Hi!
-[Kira] Hi!
Look at these smiles.
That's what you like in a store.
Welcome to Murphy's.
Thanks!
-How's it going? Kevin.
-Kieran.
-Kieran, nice to meet you.
-Kira.
-Hello, Kira.
-Kieran and Kira and Kevin.
I'm surrounded with K's.
Kieran Murphy started Murphy's ice cream
with his brother Seán in Dingle,
and they specialize in these wild flavors
that are particularly Irish.
Dingle sea salt!
We make our own salt actually
from Dingle sea water.
We boil it down.
Wow.
-That's weirdly nice. Isn't it?
-Yes. That...
Like salt on an ice cream sounds mental,
but it's gorgeous.
[Kieran] Kevin, you know this.
-My favorite. Brown bread.
-Brown bread ice cream.
Brown bread ice cream.
-That's beautiful.
-Yeah. That's the one I always get.
-I just love the bread here anyway.
-The bread is good.
-And that's almost like bread and butter.
-Yeah.
-We're on bread...
-[Phil] Yes.
...this is blue cheese.
-What!?
[Kieran] This is blue cheese
from Northern Ireland, young buck.
It's very strong. It's like a stilton.
Let me see your face first.
[Kieran and Kira laugh]
-Weird?
-[Kira] Yeah.
-Very strange.
-You're not ordering that.
[Kevin] No, it's like it's nice,
but it's cheese.
That's like if you were
at a very fancy restaurant
and at the end, they give you a little...
-The cheese plate.
-With the cheese course.
And you'd say, "That's very clever."
[Phil] This one's clever
in a different way.
-This is our Dingle gin.
-Dingle gin?
Who knew gin would make
a good ice cream?
It's like I don't like gin,
but I like this.
-Yeah.
-I like gin, and I love that.
-Wait a minute.
-You like that?
-Is there alcohol in that?
-Tons.
Is that true?
-Yeah, there is alcohol.
-Make it a double.
Yeah.
You must have a lot of fun just kind of
Willy Wonka'ing around the place here.
Have you done any flavors
that, like, haven't worked out?
-That's a good question.
-Experiments that haven't worked.
Tell us your failures.
[all laugh]
A few never saw the light of day.
One of them, we did a smoked salmon
ice cream. It was just wretched.
-Really?
-We learn just as much...
from the failures, Kevin.
-I like that you do these experiments.
-You do, yeah?
-Yeah, it's fun.
-It is fun.
[Phil] And here's more fun.
So you go around the world
just eating nice things?
-Just ice cream.
-[Kieran and Kira laugh]
Just an ice-cream centric show.
-[Kieran] Yeah?
-The sticky toffee is so good.
Yes, it's all right.
It's a good idea,
using the cookie as a spoon.
Oh, yeah. Of course, people do.
-Cookie spoon!
-[all laugh]
[Phil] Today I'm heading out of town
and into the country,
which is just so easy to do in Ireland.
In less than an hour,
you're in a whole other world.
You hear the name Greystones,
you don't get very excited.
It sounds like a plain place.
And you get there and...
it's on the sea, which is beautiful.
We arrive at dawn. The water is freezing.
And there's a bunch of mental cases...
with bathing suits on.
And they're jumping in the water!
[man] Come on, bro!
[man 2] Whoa!
[Phil] And they do this every day!
And they're led by a pair of crazy men,
these identical twin brothers,
Stephen and David Flynn,
who are the most enthusiastic people
I think I've ever met in my life.
[Stephen] Phil, darling! How are you?
-You're wet.
-You look shocked!
You're wet. You're cold.
Welcome! Make yourself at home.
-It's-- Isn't it freezing?
-No.
-No?
-Sixteen degrees Celsius.
-It's like a warm hug.
-Hi.
-You're all so beautiful.
-Hi, Phil.
-I'm cold looking at you!
-Come on, let's go!
-I'm not going in there!
-Why not?
For me, this would be
like going into The Revenant.
They look like they're freezing to death,
but I've never seen happier people.
-Hi, everybody. Is this like--
-Hello, Phil!
-So, this is your club.
-Yeah.
-This is the team.
-This is the club, yeah.
-Phil have a bar, first.
-Look how sweet you are.
-Caroline.
-Thank you.
-You work with them?
-No, just swim with them.
You swim with them.
-You all live in this town?
-Best town in the world.
The best town in the world. Welcome
to the best town in the world.
-It's official.
-Thank you.
-Welcome.
-Cheers to your health, everyone!
I have to say
whatever this does for you... Right?
It gives you one of these.
You sure that's not
from "I'm freezing to death"?
Where are you from, Phil?
-I'm from Wussyville.
-Wussyville!
[all laugh]
[Stephen] You just not like the cold,
is that it?
-That's it!
-That's it.
That's exactly it!
The cold and the wet! Look! Your teeth
are chattering! Don't lie to the people!
I didn't say it wasn't cold!
It's addictive, though.
It makes you feel good.
You know you reboot your computer
and it works better? It's like a reboot.
You guys have woken me up
with just your spirit,
so I didn't need to jump in.
I just need to see you guys.
This daily shock to the system
is just one part of the twins' push
to make people healthy.
Their cornerstone is the restaurant
and market appropriately named...
-The Happy Pear!
You gotta try these. These are tomato
the fruit, not the vegetable.
They're sweet.
-[Phil] Fig!
-[David] This isn't just any fig.
This is
the organic French black mission fig.
These are pretty much as good as figs get.
Cleopatra used to put
her sexual prowess down to figs.
Really? You better get me another.
You ready to come in?
Name that veg!
-Smell it!
-Beautiful.
Turmeric. So this stuff
pretty much gives you super powers.
Wait, I'm gonna take a bite,
and then I'm gonna do my move.
Come on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on.
[cheering]
Nice.
[man] That's very impressive.
Good control.
Yeah! [chuckles]
-It was nothing.
-[al laugh]
[David] Try these.
These are radish shoots.
Okay, we got better ones in here.
So this is a wholemeal vegan croissant.
We do a whistle stop tour.
I'll be back, get brekkie.
Yeah. We go this way.
[man laughs]
[David] Down this way.
There's loads of little rooms.
I guess it's evolved like an old shoe.
Hi, Lauren.
-Avocado toast.
-And the toast.
[David] Here's the toilets or thrones.
-[Phil] Wow.
-This is the yard here.
-[Phil] Again?
-He's into handstands.
So you're like this without coffee?
-Yeah.
You ready? We show you down this way.
-Hello. Nice to meet you.
-That's Marty, and this is Mr. Loveridge.
[Mr. Loveridge] Hello.
[laughs] Hi.
-[David] He's gonna be a famous actor.
-Yes?
-He'll be a famous actor.
-He'll be an actor, this guy.
He's gonna be making out with Charlize
Theron and all that soon. On-screen.
They're so loving and generous
and kind and sweet.
-[David] This is Shane.
-Hello.
-How are things?
-[David] This is Josh.
I'm waiting to meet someone in a bad mood.
It's like a town full of puppies.
[David] Okay,
we're gonna try fermented food.
So this is a two-year-old
apple cider vinegar.
And you'll get a slight note
of elderflower off it. Do you?
-Like that?
-This is vinegar-y.
This is a red berry kombucha.
-That's good.
-Let's sit and have brekkie.
Do you want to have brekkie,
do dips or keep playing?
Because we can keep playing all day.
-You wanted to make a smoothie.
-Okay.
[man laughs]
-You feeling a bit intimidated?
-This is just like my house.
Okay, nuts. Okay.
[Phil] Before I pass out,
we slow down with some brekkie,
which helped put them on the map.
The brothers have actually found
a way to make oatmeal sexy.
They thought if they gave their oatmeal,
which they call porridge--
If they gave that away at first,
it might attract a customer or two.
And it was delicious,
and people started showing up for it.
And now it's caught on,
and they said "You know what?
We're gonna keep giving it to people. Why?
I mean, the business has caught on.
We don't have to do that anymore."
It's because they want to.
-[Phil] I love how you pick up...
-[David] Fuel.
...a little sweetness over here.
This is great. "Nuts about Choc."
It's, like,
our healthier chocolate spread.
It makes porridge a little more decadent
and oatmeal a little fancier.
It's fantastic.
It's taking
basic rudimentary food like oatmeal
and makes it a celebration.
It's like making love to your porridge.
Well, if you two would excuse me,
maybe I'll try.
[all laugh]
Wow, it's great!
I think it just makes
it all singing and all dancing
-and makes it kind of--
-It's all singing, all dancing.
-Yeah.
-Porridge!
There's a famous Frank Capra movie
called Mr. Deeds Goes to Town,
and Gary Cooper plays a guy
who's very happy and positive,
and they say that he's pixilated.
They try to use it against him,
but the whole town turns out
to be that way.
All hail, porridge!
Greystones is pixilated.
They're all pixilated.
[Phil] Now the real road trip begins.
It's a long way to Tipperary
and I'm going way past that.
We get way down south to County Cork
and it's so beautiful.
I got to get a closer look.
We get to this cove, and it's like...
out of Lord of the Rings or something.
I mean, it's beautiful.
It's actually
a personal favorite beach of mine.
[Phil] Sally McKenna is an expert on
seaweed.
She's written books about seaweed.
[Sally] It's got so much seaweed. And
it's in a small, fairly accessible place.
We're gonna forage for seaweed.
What does that mean?
Does it mean I have to go in the water?
I'm not crazy about freezing cold water.
They said "We'll give you these booties
that cover your feet and your ankles."
So I'm like, "All right, here we go."
It's already freezing cold in the shoes.
It's already cold. It's freezing.
I see a lot of beautiful colors.
The seaweed is generally divided
into red, green, and brown.
-Right.
-And it grows from a holdfast.
So it actually holds to the rock.
The way I am with you right now.
[chuckles]
There's about 200 species of life
in a holdfast.
I think I saw a bit of nori here.
Just give me a sec. I'll just grab it.
[Sally] Look at that.
-Have you ever eaten sushi before?
-Of course.
-Well, that's sushi.
-That's the wrap.
-That is what happens.
-They dry it.
-They dry it, press it, and roll it.
-Press it. Roll it.
-But I'd eat it like that. I would.
-You would?
-I'll do what you do.
-It's beautiful. It's kind of salty.
-Good flavor.
-Yeah.
The sea animals
are really, really interesting, as well.
You have the limpets.
-These look like barnacles. Yeah.
-And those are barnacles.
They have the largest penis of anything
in the entire planet
in relation to their size.
So, I'm telling you,
this is a magical world here. A best of.
All right, here we go.
I think this is a place where I might find
a really strong flavored seaweed.
-It's called pepper dulse. It's here, see?
-Really?
Take a bit of the brown bit.
-Yeah.
-It's lovely.
Well, at least you either love it
or you hate it now you've tried it.
-It tastes like a pastrami sandwich.
-It does, you're right!
-It's got a lovely umami beefiness.
-I want more.
[Phil] I'm wasting my time
with pastrami sandwiches.
I could just come
peel some seaweed off a rock.
It's the deli of the sea.
[Phil] Sally plucks more dinner,
and we gracefully return to shore.
-I've got a foot aquarium going.
-I believe it.
-But those are nice and warm, those shoes.
-Not anymore.
[Phil] We're taking our haul further down
the coast to a little seaside restaurant
where the chef does great things
with Irish produce.
Caitlin Ruth was born in New Hampshire,
and she opened Deasy's in Clonakilty.
It's a gastropub committed
to keeping things extremely local.
We're meeting Caitlin there,
and also joining us is Sally's husband,
John McKenna.
He and Sally are both writers
and together they're considered among
the top food critics in all of Ireland.
So you have a rhubarb martini,
and I have a Clonakilty Blonde.
Can I get one of those and a drink, too?
Good health. Sláinte.
-What do you think?
-That's fantastic.
-What's in there?
-[Sally] Raw rhubarb juice, lemon juice,
rhubarb bitters, and a lot of gin.
Goodbye, everybody.
[all chuckle]
This is a pretty part of the world,
isn't it?
-Yeah. It's beautiful. Yeah.
-I see why you came here.
-That and you married an Irishman.
-That's right. Yeah.
[Phil] Listen, whatever it takes
to get a dish like this.
All right. This looks like crabmeat
and a root vegetable I think I recognize.
[Sally] What we have here is white radish.
Yeah.
And it's poached in a kombu dashi made
from the kelp that you gathered earlier.
-So you've got Japanese influences.
-But using ingredients from here.
This must have blown your mind
when you found her.
Absolutely because for a cuisine to be
dynamic, it has to be open to new ideas.
Right.
[John] So as long as you can
kind of reconfigure a dish or think of how
a Japanese stock is actually gonna work
with a West Cork vegetable.
That's when it really gets
kind of exciting.
It allows people to be more expressive
and not to feel
that they're imprisoned by,
you know,
a sort of correct way of doing things,
because the only correct way is
to make it really delicious.
Everything else is who cares.
-It's just got to be delicious.
-That's what I say.
Now, I was reading your article
about seaweed and how healthy it is.
It's got
50 times as much iron as spinach.
It is the original and the best superfood
and maybe the oldest thing on the planet.
During the famine,
why didn't they turn to seaweed?
-They did. They did!
-[Phil] What happened?
But there isn't enough out there
to feed the whole country.
There's an old Irish phrase,
"Pratai, paisti, feamainn,"
which means "Potatoes, children, seaweed."
-I like that children are second.
-Yeah. Children after potatoes.
Yeah.
I'm actually not quite done
with seaweed yet.
[Phil]
I'm going down the road to Cork City
and a little Japanese restaurant
run by chef Takashi Miyazaki.
-[Takashi] Hello.
-Hello! Hi, chef. Nice to meet you.
[Takashi] Nice to meet you!
I'm here with chef and TV host
Rachel Allen,
who had the hot tip
on this interesting mash-up of a place.
-So, you're from Japan.
-Yep!
What brought you to Ireland?
My wife.
-You met her there or here?
-I met my wife in Hiroshima in Japan.
Yeah, that time I was working
in an Irish pub and restaurant.
You were working in an Irish pub?
So were you making
Irish stew and things like that?
-I was.
-Wow.
[Phil] I'm guessing this
wasn't on that menu.
Seaweed tempura.
Now, I eat a lot of Japanese food
in Los Angeles. I haven't seen this.
[Phil] Just a handful of seaweed battered,
fried and served with dashi for dipping.
It couldn't be simpler.
It couldn't be better either.
Mm.
-Very good.
-[Rachel] Yes.
It's so pure. It's incredible, but
kind of naughty and intelligent as well?
Yes! Because the fried, but--
Oh, I love this.
I've never had in Japan this tempura.
-So this is Japanese-Irish?
-Yeah, definitely.
[Phil] It seems simple.
It seems actually so simple
that I'm shocked I haven't had it before.
I've even been to restaurants
that specialize in tempura.
Why aren't they doing this?
This is something you could--
You want a bag of it,
you want to sit in front of the TV
and eat seaweed tempura.
Yes! It sounds crazy. It's fantastic.
So you married an Irish girl.
-Yes.
-Me, too.
Are you-- Does she cook Irish food?
What would I call it?
Be careful now.
She can make, uh... chicken.
Let's move on.
[Rachel chuckles]
[Phil] Now I'm not really sure
what else to do in this town,
but luckily I have some help.
You know, the Irish crew
that we've picked up
are people that drive the vans
with all the crew and everything,
and they say, "Phil, you got to stop
at the Oval Bar in Cork."
Okay. So I'm there
with Des and Tom and Owen,
and I start learning about... pub life.
-Are you gonna have a drink yourself, sir?
-I'm in Cork, so what's the Cork beer?
If you're having a drink here, I'd say
Beamish is probably the best option.
-I got to do it, right?
-You got to drink Beamish.
But you're not having it.
Well, I'm on a diet.
[laughs]
They say just eating and drinking,
then have a pint of stout.
-Right.
-I have to watch me figure.
I'll watch it for you.
Oh.
-[mumbles]
-[Phil chuckles]
I just heard that his last name
is the same last name as my wife's.
-That's right. The Horans. They're famous.
-Yeah.
-Why?
-West of Ireland.
I can't tell you
because you said it's your wife.
-[Emma] There you go.
-Thanks, Emma! Here's my pint of Beamish!
[Phil] Who makes a nice toast?
-I'll give you a couple.
-Okay.
-May the road rise up to meet you!
-I've heard that.
May you be in heaven a half an hour
before the devil knows your dead.
That's a good one. Yeah, I like that one.
-Do you know the movie Jaws?
-I do.
Here's to swimming with bow-legged women.
-Yeah! Robert Shaw! Brilliant!
-[Phil] Yes! An Irishman, right?
-Scotsman. Scottish.
-[Phil] Is he?
You're a film buff.
-Beamish!
-I like it.
-Yeah?
-There's nothing wrong with it.
-It's nice, right.
-Mind if I have a taste, Philip?
-Please!
-I haven't had Beamish ever.
-You're a Horan so you get what I have.
Well? Well?
-What do you think?
-It's not-- That's nice.
-Yeah?
-See that, a Galway man.
It was a windy answer.
He was afraid to commit.
Dublin people have kind of have
high notions of themselves.
They call the rest of us
in the country "culchies."
So they think
that we're all farmers and all that.
They call us rednecks
and this kind of stuff.
-Yeah.
Ignorance is what we call it.
You can take the man out of the bog,
but you can't take the bog out of the man.
He's a bog man.
No. Up yours, Galway!
Wow. We might see a bar fight.
Oh, God. No. We're best mates.
No, no. Here. It's only drink talk.
Only drink talk.
Only drink talk!
-You are dead. I'm joking.
-[chuckles]
[Phil] What you see here
is drivers who are off duty!
They don't have to drive anymore.
I want to make
that little, you know, caveat.
We don't advise drivers to stop in the pub
and have as many as we did
and go out driving.
Please don't.
[birds chirping]
[Phil] A few miles from the city,
you're in farm country.
It's so peaceful here.
You'd never know we were
in the heart of the Irish food revolution.
The first family of Irish cooking
is the Allen family.
We met Rachel Allen,
but the matriarch
is her grandmother-in-law,
93-year-old Myrtle Allen,
who's like the Alice Waters
of Irish cooking.
And there's her daughter-in-law
Darina Allen.
They call Darina the Julia Child.
Together they're in charge of paradise,
otherwise known as Ballymaloe,
a world famous cooking school in
a 19th-century estate on a 100-acre farm.
Chefs come from all over Ireland
and beyond to study here.
Darina runs the day-to-day
and offers me a tour.
[Darina laughing]
There we go.
[Darina] So, this is
the main garden.
And this is a two-acre garden which was
a complete wilderness when we came here.
-Look! There's the message. "Grow food."
-[Phil] Yes, good idea, people."
This is farm to table
before farm to table was a thing.
-Blackberries, look!
-I'm having one. I know these.
Look here. There you are.
The first of the wild blackberries.
[Darina] We are totally-- Look down here.
That's amazing!
I know.
They went out of their way not just
to make it an organic farm, all-natural,
and have
everything you can imagine on a farm,
but to make it as aesthetically beautiful
as they possibly could.
I want to stage a production
of Midsummer Night's Dream in your garden.
[chuckles]
-Promise?
-Yeah.
[Darina] So, we'll go on. We'll go through
because there's lots more to see.
[Phil] Slow down, Darina!
[Darina] Sorry. [chuckles]
And she's a force of nature.
So, we'll go. Look! I'll take you along.
I'll show you the shell houses out here.
Then this is clover here.
[Phil] I could not believe
how much energy she had
and how much enthusiasm she had
for what she does
and her life on this place.
You've made one of the most beautiful
gardens in the world, I think.
-Look at that. Little piggies.
-There's pigs!
These are saddleback. They're heritage,
and getting fatter and fatter every day.
Hello, pigs!
[snorting]
-Hello! Yes!
-And they're--
-Look at this fellow...
-Look!
-You see they--
-They recognize a family member.
[Phil] Hey, easy there, buddy!
This is a family show!
And they're gonna eat this, not me?
Now careful here. There's a wire here.
I haven't done this before.
[Darina chuckles] You're a city boy!
I am a city boy.
-[Darina] This is a first for you.
-[Phil] Hi, guys! Look what I have.
Look! Do you like this?
Hey, hey, pig!
Porky! [chuckles]
There we go.
We're going up to have
an Irish breakfast now in a few minutes.
-[Phil] They have a lot of personality.
-[Darina] They have.
They're like nice dogs...
that you eat.
[Darina] Now...
It's smelling good, is it?
[Phil] She whipped up this breakfast,
the full Irish breakfast in ten minutes.
-These are some scones, here.
-Lovely.
And this is some brown soda bread
I made earlier.
This is the traditional Irish soda bread.
And if you bring that one over,
that's a spotted dog.
Look. This is like a white soda bread
that has some currants
and was considered
to be made as a special treat
when the men
were working harder in the fields
-thrashing or haymaking.
-Like me feeding pigs!
Or when we have a special visitor coming.
There we are.
Good.
Our hens, they eat up the scraps
leftover after the morning's cooking.
And then they come back
as eggs a few days later.
-Yes.
-Perfect arrangement!
Darina's now gonna sing
"The Circle of Life" for me.
[Darina chuckles]
How many sausages would you like?
Uh, two.
Two! Just two?
That's a bit of a feeble effort,
but anyway we'll do that.
Now, here we go!
Sit yourself down there.
[Phil]
Come on, look how beautiful is this?
[Darina]
Now look at this. Sort of gorgeous.
This is honeycomb taken
straight out of the beehive.
-You want to have a little taste?
-Yes.
[Darina] This is a wildflower.
-Yeah?
-It's up in the plum orchard, as well.
Now is that not delicious?
Don't you feel like saying grace
and giving thanks to the good Lord?
-Beautiful.
-What religion are you?
I'm converting to whatever you are.
Darina's daughter Emily sits down
to join us.
Do you eat a full English breakfast
every day?
Not every day.
-You can't. Right?
-No, you couldn't every day.
[Phil] All right. Here I go.
Fresh eggs from the chickies.
[Darina] Sorry, I'm starving.
[Phil] Every single thing I'm having
comes from the farm.
[Darina] Well, now the butter comes
from the Jersey cows.
The honey comes from the beehive.
And then all these breads were made here.
And eggs are from here,
and the rashers and sausages
are locally produced.
-So we know exactly where it is.
-[Phil] Fantastic.
[Darina]
And this is the spotted dog. Look!
[Phil] I'm not gonna insult you
by not having it.
-[Darina] I'll too have some.
-[Phil] Butter, yes.
[Darina] Good.
The bread and butter.
It's just like nowhere else.
[Darina laughs]
Well, in Ireland we can grow grass
like nowhere else in the world,
so our butter and a lot of our dairy
products and our beef and our lamb
are so good.
Mm.
[Darina] Mm.
-You look very happy. You look so happy.
-I'm so happy. I really am.
It's kind of magic to be able to pick
something off a plant and eat it.
And it gives you
a whole other attitude to food.
It gives you such a great appreciation.
And every time you see a farmer,
you want to hug the farmer.
So basically-- Or the food producers.
-I hug chefs all the time.
-[chuckles] Good.
You might get a hug
before we're done.
[Darina chuckles] Promises, promises.
[Phil] They tell me one
of the things I have to do
is go out with the bee keeper
Shane Lehane.
And we're gonna collect honey.
Sounds nice, right? Sounds cute.
Sounds like what Winnie the Pooh does.
But I guess if you're a toy bear,
you get to skip this part.
You ready for your first look at the bees?
Yes. I love bees, I really do.
I'm just scared to death of pain.
Put the hood on,
then you can leave it down again.
[Shane] I can hear
your heart pumping from here. Okay?
Well, it's always, you know,
"You've got nothing to be afraid of,
just put this on, and this on
-and this on and this on."
-Yeah.
Nothing to be afraid of.
Yeah.
Okay.
[Phil] Nice Shane does his best
to calm my fears.
No one's ever been stung
in this bee suit before.
Well, that's reassuring!
Brand new bee suit.
[Phil] Oh.
[Shane] Now... How are you feeling now?
Wonderful.
[Shane] Are you ready?
Yeah.
You can carry
the toilet paper and the stuff.
What's toilet paper for?
-Wait until you see. Very important.
-For when I... [beep] my pants?
[Phil]
Remember that movie The Killer Bees?
-Did you see that movie?
-[Shane] Yeah. It's a true life story.
[Shane] So, light the edge of that.
[Phil] Shane gives me a job
so I can die with a purpose.
[Shane] So here, have a little go
because you'll be smoking.
[Phil] I'm the smoker.
[Shane] Yes, you're the smoker.
Now...
-Well done. You look the part.
-Yeah.
[Phil] I like bees, I really do.
I see what they do.
I know how essential they are
to life on the planet.
I know that the honey is fantastic.
I know they pollinate the world.
I love a bee.
No problem with the bees.
They seem to have a problem with you...
if you go to their house,
and you take the roof off their house
and take their stuff.
[Phil] The bees seem
to be trying to get at us.
But they really seem
to be going for my face.
And they're hitting the screen.
[imitates stinging]
And it's not a nice little calm,
like, buzzing. It's... [imitates buzzing]
What you really need to do as a beekeeper
is learn somehow to just relax.
-Enjoy the sound.
-Exactly.
It takes a bit of time, and I'm impressed.
I'm impressed by your demeanor.
I'm impressed by the way
you're going at this. So, well done.
This is called being petrified.
[Phil] But here's what we came for.
It's a gorgeous frame of sealed honey.
[Phil] Yum.
[Phil] All right. Are these bees
gonna stay here or follow us?
Oh, they always stay.
[Phil] Go back home now, bees.
[Phil] By the way, bees,
if you're listening,
sorry, but I know you can make more.
I know you're--
I know this is just a temporary theft,
but you're gonna--
Don't let it ruin your day.
[Phil] When in Ireland,
you think,
"This couldn't get any prettier."
And then it does.
I was first in Kinsale ten years ago.
I just fell in love with it. It was
the most romantic seaside fishing village.
And the number one restaurant there
is a place called Fishy Fishy.
And the chef owner is Martin Shanahan.
-[Martin] He's looking for you.
-Gentlemen.
[waiter] Today, we have a little taste of
Kinsale and all our own local materials.
[Phil] I am very happy.
Hello, everybody.
Mm.
Wow.
Can you get the sweetness of a crab
and the saltiness of the ocean?
Where from?
About 500 yards from here.
-No!
-Yes. Yeah.
Hee-hee.
Come on, people! What's next?
Okay. Oop. It's fresh.
-This one's still alive.
-It's fresh! Yes! [chuckles]
[Phil] I'm trying
your smoked salmon.
-I think the smoked salmon is--
-Amazing!
-[Phil] John Dory.
-John Dory.
Wow, I love it.
Now, could you say it
for the camera again?
I love this.
[chuckles]
This is the most charming town.
[Martin] And I love the colors. I mean,
the beauty is all the different colors.
-[man] Enjoy.
-[Martin] Cheers, good health!
-To your health!
-Good health.
-Cheers. Good health to you.
-All the best.
[man] Someone's thirsty.
Yeah.
-I'm Irish.
-[chuckles]
[Skype ringing]
[Phil] Ah!
[Max] Hello!
Faith and Begorrah!
Hello. How are you?
Very nice. Dad, can you turn
the lights over your bed on?
They want
the little lights on behind you.
Dad is in his natural habitat.
Here he goes. Oh.
Look at-- It's a-- [laughing]
What's so funny?
Just that it swung around.
Now he's got to swing it back.
That's good.
You want the other one, too?
[Phil] Yeah, why not. Make it even.
[chuckles]
Dad, have you--
Are you playing bridge?
I played yesterday.
How'd you do?
Not so good.
-This woman I didn't want to play with...
-Yeah.
...she asked me to play with her because
she didn't have anybody so I said, "Okay."
Max, I'd prefer if you didn't talk about
the fact you didn't want to play with her.
They put this on.
Yeah. And what's her name,
and do you have an address, maybe?
-[Helen laughs]
-No, no, no.
He likes these two other women.
-Okay.
-[Phil] Oh, really?
Ma, are you all right with this?
Your husband playing with other ladies?
Oh, I'm perfectly fine! I'd even pay them!
-[laughs]
-[Helen] No.
You were in Dublin
and then you went someplace else?
I went down the east coast.
I went to this place
that's a working farm.
It's called Ballymaloe.
How were the pigs?
They were delicious.
[laughs]
I forget. Have you been to Ireland?
It's so beautiful.
It's lush and green.
All the food,
I have to say, has been fantastic.
-My favorite thing...
-[Helen] Oh.
This is sour dough bread.
It's actually hot out of the oven.
But the other thing, Dad,
that you would love
is there is nothing like this.
-What is it?
-This is-- Can you see that?
-[Helen] Butter.
-[Max] Butter?
But you see how yellow it is?
[both] Yes.
And I'm telling you, I'll put this butter
up against any butter anywhere.
This is like a paradise.
You know we haven't had breakfast yet.
[Max] Delicious.
Oh, look. I got it.
What? Oh, Irish soda bread.
Irish soda bread. That's-- Yeah.
Oh. Oh.
-Okay.
-Very nice.
[Phil] Oh, now she's excited.
You know what it needs?
A little more butter!
[Helen laughs]
Ha, ha! Richard!
-[Richard laughs]
-[Helen laughs]
You also went to the pig farm there,
where the pigs are.
You feed-- To feed the pigs.
That's right.
We went through that already. Yes.
-When was that?
-A few minutes ago.
Maybe it's not the ladies at bridge.
[Helen laughs]
-So, we'll talk to you when you get home.
-Yes.
Enjoy the rest of your stay there.
Thank you.
-Can't have it any better, really.
-I think you're right.
-Would you like to be in his place?
-No!
[Phil laughs]
-I enjoy it here with you.
-Maybe you couldn't have it any better.
Right.
You think of that?
[Phil laughs]
Thank you for the good ending. Goodbye!
Stay well.
[Phil] You, too!
[chuckles]
"Maybe you couldn't have it any better."
That's all you want.
[Phil] It seems hard not to feel good
when you're in Ireland.
I've loved the food here
and the spectacular scenery,
but to me the best part of travelling
are the people you meet
and the friends you make.
Would you like a pudding?
And sometimes you find people
whose attitude about life is so wonderful
even if it seems crazy,
you'd be crazy to forget about it.
And sometimes you can't forget about it.
[cheering]
[Phil] Whoo!
[Phil screams]
[Phil] You don't travel, "Oh, I hope
I come back changed," right?
But all I'm asking is
that you keep an open mind.
-I got you.
-There we go. Yes. [laughs]
[chuckles]
-I'm just like them.
-You all right?
-Clearly you did it.
-Great.
I can be buried in Ireland now?
No, I mean now. [chuckles]
♪ Somebody please, somebody please ♪
-♪ Somebody please, somebody please ♪
-♪ Somebody ♪
♪ Somebody please, somebody please ♪
♪ Somebody, somebody feed Phil ♪
♪ Oh, please somebody
Somebody feed Phil ♪
♪ Somebody feed him now ♪